# Erik Wahlberger - Individual reflection week 3

- **What do I want to learn or understand better?**
    I do want do understand the workflow of the agile process a bit better. Right now we have our sprint meetings, we divide up the workload, then we work by ourselves or with the people with whom we share user stories with, we check in with each other every day, but still it feels as if the process is a bit bulky? Of course I understand that there is room for improvement in the process, we have only just finished our first sprint. But the problem is that I am not really sure when it comes to **HOW** we are going to improve the process. Is this very individual to every team? Is there something that we are missing in the standardised process of working in an agile way. I guess my question is more about how do get started when it comes to improving our workflow? Is it only an internal discussion within the team, or is the anything fundamental that we are missing right now? I will make sure to try and search my way through the internet to find these answers. Maybe I will find them, or maybe I will just come back with more questions. We'll see next week!
- **How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?**
    I am currently helping some members in the team with the git and GitHub workflow, especially working with branches, pushing, pulling, creating pull requests and so on. So far I have done it by having sort of an active "support role" in the team's discord server. That seems to be working well so far, but it might take a little bit of time to describe everything via text. Maybe the next step is to try and support the team in a call/video call. I have also helped team members to set up the development environment, and to get the android emulator working properly. I have helped the team members with this in the same way as with git, via discord chat.
- **What is my contribution towards the team's use of Scrum?**
    I feel like I have a little bit of a "SCRUM law enforcement" role in the team. If team members have any questions that I feel like I don't have the authority to answer, I redirect them to the PO or SCRUM master. I try to make sure that the PO and SCRUM master are OK with any deviations from the original plan, so to speak. Both when it comes to my own user stories, but also when it comes to other's user stories.
- **What is my contribution towards the team's deliveries?**
    I have been actively contributing in the team's reflection meeting which is the ground work for the team's team reflection for this week. I am also actively typing out this individual reflection right now, another delivery for this week. Other than that, I have completed 2 user stories so far, with a third one waiting for a review today. So hopefully that will be finished as well before the end of this sprint, which is 23:59 today (2021-09-21). That is also the reason why this reflection is published on a Tuesday, not a Friday, since the team's sprints start on Wednesdays and end on Tuesdays.