# Erik Wahlberger - Individual reflection week 4

- **What do I want to learn or understand better?**
    I am not sure at this point. I feel like the workflow during the sprints have become better since the last sprint, I am slowly but steadily getting the hang of why agile processes are used. They start to feel less in the way and more helpful. One thing that I have to learn or improve on is to use the DoD when taking on new user stories, or when acting as reviewer for other team members in their user stories. So far I have not used the DoD at all, it has always been in the back of my mind but I have never really used it when I do my work.
- **How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?**
    I am still actively helping my team members with git/GitHub/Android SDK/Android Studio/Android emulator problems. It feels like it is becoming more and more of a responsibility of mine within the group, to help other team members. During tomorrow's sprint meeting, we will discuss if we need a dedicated "support person" in the team to ask all of these types of questions, as some times it can take a lot of time from my tasks and user stories, leading to somewhat of a stress that I might not finish all of my own things in time.
- **What is my contribution towards the team's use of Scrum?**
    As usual I take part in all of the team's joint meetings, and I deliver my daily progress report to the team members. As in the previous sprint, I try to enforce some of the principles that the team has agreed on in the social contract such as always testing their code beforehand, enforcing reviews in GitHub, making sure that the pull request can be merged with the master branch without any merge conflicts and so on. Hopefully during the next sprint I will be responsible for enforcing reviews in an even clearer way by automatically notifying reviewers in Discord when their review has been requested. I also try to work as best I can with the agile principles of course, by working on our user stories and tasks, trying to use the user stories and the acceptance criterias as much as I can.
- **What is my contribution towards the team's deliveries?**
    As stated before, I am actively working on user stories and tasks that the team has been assigned during the sprint. This sprint I worked on user story 18 and 19. However, only user story 18 has been finished due to a miscommunication with other team members regarding user story 7, which was still "in progress", and user story 19 was dependent on user story 7 being done. Therefore I started too late on user story 19 to finish it during the sprint. So far I am taking an active role in trying to incorporate automations in GitHub to help the team and to make it easier to follow our agile principles, and more difficult not to follow them.