# Erik Wahlberger - Individual reflection week 6

- **What do I want to learn or understand better?**
  So, in my last reflection I wrote a lot about wanting to "play by the book", basically that I wanted to address the situation of me not fully using the agile tools that we have been given, especially our definition of done. I feel like I have been a lot better with that during this sprint. I have used the definition of done during my pull request reviews, and I have also had it in the back of my head while working on my own user stories. I have also been looking at the definition of done before creating a pull request for the user stories that I have been working on, so I see a clear improvement in this area. Since it is not a lot of time left in the course now, I am not entirely sure what I want to learn until next week. I feel like my individual reflections have been a bit all over the place, not fully confined to the A, B, A->B reflection cycle, so I would like to improve that during this reflection, and the final reflections to come. I can definitely see the benefit of doing so, since it is a lot easier to look back on previous reflections and see what has been improved (and not) since the last week. So, the focus for next week: Improve my individual reflections! To get there (A->B), I simply have to look on Canvas before I write my individual reflection, and follow the guidelines as much as I can. I will make sure to check my reflection when I am finished, to ensure that I have all three parts (A, B, A->B) for all the questions in my next reflection.
- **How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?**
  I feel like I have been continuously trying to help other team members to learn something new with regards to Android and Java. I have been doing this work for several weeks now, including the last week as well, by talking to them on Discord, helping them with their user stories and trying to solve them together as much as possible so that they learn something new instead of just me doing the work for them without them understanding what is going on and why we solve a particular task in a certain way. So, depending on how much more work we are going to do on the app itself, I will continue to help my team members develop their knowledge about Android app development, while also refreshing my own knowledge on the subject. I believe that we will keep the current workflow regarding this, meaning that the other team members will send me a message on Discord if they need help with something, and we'll take it from there.
- **What is my contribution towards the team's use of SCRUM?**
   In my previous reflection I wrote about my automations as my contribution towards SCRUM. This is probably the first sprint that we haven't talked about or introduced any new automation in GitHub to help with the workflow, most likely because we feel that the current focus has to be on finishing all the features that we want to get done within the application itself. So, my contribution towards SCRUM this week is that I have been working on my user stories as usual, but this also ties well together with the first question, where I wrote that I have focused a lot on "working by the book" during development and pull requests by using our definition of done a lot more than I have been doing during the last sprints. I have also written new user stories, and I feel like I am becoming more and more comfortable with doing that. In some user stories, I still have some difficulties with the last part, "since Z", because sometimes it feels clear in my head why we are supposed to create a new user story, but it's difficult to write it down in words. Since we are reaching the end of the project with only one sprint left, I do not think that I will have a lot of new possibilities to write user stories for this particular project. But I will definitely keep working on using our definition of done to keep track of what I should be looking for during the reviews, as well as what I should focus on while working on my assigned user stories
- **What is my contribution towards the team's deliverables?**
  During this sprint, I have worked together with Joakim on the database implementation, and it's been going very well. We decided that we wanted to use Android Room for the database implementation, and it seems to be working so far. We have had very productive meetings on Discord where we have worked together via screen sharing and talking to each other. I have also worked on user stories related to the database implementation, namely the achievements view. This goes hand in hand with the database implementation, and is one task of the same user story as the database. Other than that, I have also reviewed some pull requests and pushed some team members to perform their code reviews. It's been a very productive sprint this time, with a lot of merged code and lots of finished user stories and tasks. For the next sprint, I believe that the focus will be on finishing the final report, and fixing some final bug fixes in the app itself, so I will work together with the team on those things. As usual, we will have a sprint planning meeting where we plan everything that needs to be done during the sprint, so after that has taken place I will know for certain what to work on. Since I have an exam on Saturday, I will have a shorter sprint this time and work from Sunday onwards to finish my items. The app itself is working pretty well at the moment, except that it seems to crash the first time the user opens it! We will work on fixing that during next sprint.
