# Erik Wahlberger - Individual reflection week 7

- **What do I want to learn or understand better?**
  My last reflection touched upon my individual reflections, that my structure has not been entirely clear in the previous individual reflections and that I wanted to become better on including all of the elements: A, B, A->B. I believe that my last reflection did pretty good when it comes to including all of the parts for all of the questions provided, but ideally of course, all of the reflections should have had the same structure from the beginning. This type of reflection is something I will definitely take with me to future projects and courses. It's such a simple but powerful way of reflecting regarding basically anything. SO, I hope that this reflection will keep the same quality as the last one! Since we are definitely at the end of the course right now, I guess it's time to think about what I want to do with the knowledge that I've gained in this course, in the future. The first thing that comes to mind is that I would like to apply the agile software approach to a longer project within a company to really see the benefits of the agile approach. I have previous experience of working with software development within the MedTech industry, where the company in question did not use an agile approach. So, ideally, I think that I would like to see what the difference could be when converting a waterfall approach to an agile approach in practice. We've learned about the pros and cons about agile project management in this course, but as with all things in life, this will most likely work a bit different in different industries and companies. I am very curious to understand more about when it's "right" and not to use the agile methods. This might not be an easy task to do right now, so as a start, I most likely need more experience with working with agile methods in practice, together with scrum masters and product owners that have previous experience with these roles. Only after that will I **maybe** be experienced enough to take on the task to convert some part of a business from a waterfall approach to an agile approach. All in all, it's been a wonderful course to take as a student. I feel that I have gained a lot of practical knowledge about what the workflow will look like when I start working professionally with software development again!
- **How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?**
  Last week I wrote about how I have continuously helped my team members with their user stories, and that the workflow has been good, so that I would most likely just continue to work in the same way as before. During this last sprint, we have not had a lot of activity within the GitHub repo since most of us have had exams to do as well. But I have helped a little bit (in the sense of quickly looking through the code because a team member was not sure if they had implemented a feature in the correct way), but other than that, it has been a calm week without very much help from me or anyone else, as far as I'm concerned. While I can reflect on how I have helped someone during the last week, it is more difficult to reflect on how I can help people in the future, within the scope of this course. But to reflect a bit on how I can help team members in the future: I believe that the type of workflow that we have had in this team has been pretty good. Later throughout the course I was given somewhat of a "support" role in the team for team members that needed a bit more help than getting a quick response to a question in the Discord chat. So, I have been doing a lot of pair programming together with the rest of the team to try and solve different problems together. Obviously this would have been easier to do in real life, rather than doing everything via screen sharing on Discord, but the workflow itself is pretty nice, and I wouldn't have anything against continuing working like this in the future.
- **What is my contribution towards the team's use of SCRUM?**
  Last time I wrote about wanting to gain even more experience with writing user stories, to work a bit more with the last part, "since Z" in the standard pattern "As an X, I want Y, since Z", as well as to continue with using the definition of done. During this sprint, we haven't really had any new features developed in the application, so I haven't had the opportunity to write any new user stories for this project. Instead, I have tried to practice this ability by myself, and even though it is not documented within this project, I finally feel that I have a better understanding of each part of writing a good user story. When it comes to using our definition of done, I have done it on as many occasions as I have could, mainly when performing pull request reviews for other team members, since I myself have not had any new user stories to work on. Most of the work this week has been to finish the final report, which we have not created a user story for in our SCRUM board. During this project, I feel like I have taken on a bit more of a SCRUM master role than first intended, since Ramza was appointed to be the SCRUM master. During our meetings, I have often been the one who has led the meetings, together with Molly. Since some team members within the group has not talked a lot during the meetings, I have taken the role of trying to ask questions regarding how other team members feel about effort estimations, if they can write new user stories for features, and things like that. I would like to try to have this role within a project from the beginning sometime in the future. I feel like it would suit me, which is not something I thought that I would say at the end of this course. In the beginning of the course, I felt that the SCRUM master role was better suited for other people, but at the end of the course I am definitely willing to give it a try! I have never been very interested in leading people in any way, but the SCRUM master role has me excited for the future because it seems to be that perfect balance of leading team members but still retaining the software development. While it's probably not reasonable to expect that I will get a job as a SCRUM master as soon as I have graduated from Chalmers, it is definitely one of the goals I am planning to work towards.
- **What is my contribution towards the team's deliverables?**
  Last week I wrote that I would have a shorter sprint because of an exam during Saturday. I said that I would work on the final report with the team, and that I would work together with the team to finish the last bugs in the app. I mentioned that we had a bug where the app crashed the first time we launched it on a particular device. That bug seems to be fixed now, which is great. The other team members did not have any other issues they wanted to fix, and I couldn't come up with anything either, so we left it at that and focused more on the final report instead. We have divided the work on the final report between the team members so that we are supposed to create a "draft" for a specific part of the report, and later throughout the week we will talk through the draft and probably change some parts so that we agree on everything, and so that everything is coherent. Since we haven't had a lot of deliverables this week, I don't have a lot to reflect on here. I have worked on the report like I said last time, and I am finished with my "draft". Now when I reflect on the future, I think that it's been very important to have these smaller milestones for a project like this. It's very easy to begin working on a project, plan what needs to be done, and then say to yourself that "I can do that later". By having sprints of specified lengths, and user stories that need to be finished within those sprints, each team member is forced to work on the project continuously, which is great! I really enjoy this approach, and I can see how this is applicable to many parts of life, not just within a software project. I will take this with me in the future, especially in my professional career, but also in my personal life. It can be easily applied for a student, for example, to plan the workload throughout the study periods. In theory, all of the parts within the agile workflow can be applied for a single student studying alone, by having one week sprints as in this course. During each Monday, all of the necessary items for the week will be planned (lectures, hand-ins, labs, presentations, exams and whatnot). Every item can be written as a user story, each course can be an epic. Every Sunday, you have a sprint retrospective and review with yourself, and then the loop continues. While this method doesn't touch upon the "working in parallel", and "having external stakeholders" parts of the agile workflow, I believe that we could at least work alone to develop our mindset to align better with the agile workflow. It's really applicable in different ways throughout many parts of life.
  
---

As an ending note, I just want to thank you for a great course! Even though it has been a bit more unstructured (by design) than my previous courses, I feel like I have gained a lot of permanent knowledge throughout the course since I have always had to think by myself without having all the answers in front of me. It has been a good experience to work together with people from different backgrounds and different experiences, whom I do not know from before. This has made me value communication within the project group a lot more than previously, and I have also gained an interest in leadership which I did not expect at the beginning of the course.
