# Erik Wahlberger - Individual reflection week 5

- **What do I want to learn or understand better?**
    It feels as if during every sprint, and during every supervision meeting, I gain more and more insight in the agile approach, but at the same time I also have more and more questions. I feel like the team's current workflow is good, it works great with pull requests, reviews, working on user stories etc, but maybe that is also because the team can work very well together without having a super clear structure to work with. But that also stops us in a way, because I myself don't always see myself using for example our definition of done, I don't have any clear criterias when reviewing code, I basically wing it and look for obvious things like code formatting, code that can be simplified in one way or another, I test the functionality of the change manually and so on. So I think that what I want to learn is how to "play by the book", how to use the documents that we have created such as the definition of done. But I also feel like we need clearer definitions for review criterias, because otherwise one reviewer might approve most pull requests because they have less strict criterias, while another reviewer might be very strict, which does not align with the agile approach.
- **How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?**
    I am currently helping team members by having Discord calls with them, I help in the chat in Discord as well. I definitely feel like I am doing my part when it comes to helping my team members. I have helped a lot with the git workflow, how to think when developing for Android, how to use the Android emulator and so on.
- **What is my contribution towards the team's use of Scrum?**
    I think that my contribution towards the team's use of scrum is mostly centered around the GitHub workflow: I have been a part of multiple automation additions to GitHub and Discord to try and enforce our workflow: Working on separate branches, using the "Code review" feature in GitHub, ensuring that our PO is the one that approves the PRs and so on. So far, this has worked very well, it's improved upon every single sprint. There is always some kind of new automation that is added to GitHub and/or Discord every sprint to help our team members.
- **What is my contribution towards the team's deliveries?**
    I think that most of the previous question's answer apply here as well, but I am also continuously working on the user stories that the team has agreed to deliver during the sprint. So far I have worked on the camera implementation as well as the MVC refactor of the codebase. I believe that the next thing I might work more on is the database implementation together with Joakim, Molly and possibly some other team members.